TY  - JOUR
TI  - Game-Based Learning for Effective Teaching of Computer Studies in Secondary Schools
PY  - 2017/06/30
Y2  - 2025/12/30
JF  - Fountain Journal of Natural and Applied Sciences
JA  - Fountain Journal of Natural and Applied Sciences
VL  - 6
IS  - 1
SE  - Articles
DO  - 10.53704/fujnas.v6i1.160
UR  - https://doi.org/10.53704/fujnas.v6i1.160
AB  - Game-based learning among Nigerian secondary schools is not common. In foreign countries where game-based learning is widely used, it is often believed that it could be more distracting and may not align with learning goals. Considering this stance, it is imperative to investigate among teachers and students if this approach would be effective for teaching computer studies before it could be recommended for implementation. Thus, the need for this study which investigated students and teachers’ perception on game-based learning for effective teaching of computer studies in secondary schools, Ilorin. Specifically, the study investigated secondary school teachers and students’ awareness of game-based learning, their attitude to game-based learning and their readiness toward game-based learning for effective teaching. It also examined the respondents’ perception toward the usefulness of game-based learning for effective teaching. The researcher demonstrated the use of game-based learning with the teaching of Network Routing by playing the orange game as found on CS unplugged. This is to ensure that both teachers and students understand the concept of game-based learning before attempting the survey. This study adopted a descriptive research using a survey method. A purposive sampling of one hundred and twenty-five (125) students and twenty-five (25) teachers were used on the target population of schools in Ilorin South local government, Kwara state, Nigeria. Percentage (%) statistical method and standard deviation were used to analyze the data obtained. The findings implied that teachers should be encouraged to use student-centered approach in their teaching for effective learning. It was recommended among others that secondary school teachers should make use of game-based learning since they are all aware and ready to use it for their teaching of computer studies.Keywords: Game-based learning, Educational games, Computer games, Computer studies
ER  -